readme.md, before:

# Project Template

## Purpose

This project template is designed as a base repository for any project, and can be adapted for any purpose.

## Getting started

If you are new to version control or just haven't used it in awhile, the following documents may be useful to get you started.

* [Git Style Guide](https://github.com/ia-eknorr/ignition-git-style-guide)
* [IA Version Control Documentation](https://github.com/ia-eknorr/ignition-version-control)

It is assumed that the following have been installed and set up before spinning up this stack:

* [Proper workstation setup](https://github.com/ia-eknorr/ignition-version-control/blob/main/Workstation%20Setup.md)
  * Git
  * Github CLI
  * Visual Studio Code
* Docker
* [Traefik reverse proxy](https://github.com/ia-eknorr/traefik-reverse-proxy)

## How To Use

### Create local repository

* Create folder for repository
* Run `git clone <repository-link>`

### Update the stack

> :memo: **_Note_**: This will be different for each project. Below are suggested changes, but not everything may be applicable.

1. `.env`
   Update, add, or delete these variables as needed. The ones currently in this file are added as examples.

2. `db-init`
   Place .sql files containing database instantiation in the following folders. These sql scripts will be be run alphanumerically on startup.

3. `gw-projects`
   * For a new project
      * Update `ExampleProject/project.json` with `title: "<NewProjectName>"`
      * Rename `ExampleProject` directory with `<NewProjectName>`
   * For an existing project
      * Delete `gw-projects/ExampleProject` and replace it with the existing _unzipped_ project export.

4. `readme.md`
   > :memo: **_Note_**: Your project should have a readme that contains information about the project, helpful links, and anything else you think would be useful. `sample-readme.md` has been added as an example.

   * Update `sample-readme.md` with pertinent information for the project.
   * Delete (or rename) this document, `readme.md`.
   * Rename `sample-readme.md` to `readme.md`.

5. `docs` (Optional)
   * Place any useful or pertinent documentation to your project here, such as an `installation-guide.md`

6. `module-init` (Optional)

   * Used for any necessary 3rd party modules.
   * See `module-init/readme.md` to learn more about how to use this folder.

7. `secrets` (Optional)
   * Used for sensitive information like passwords, tokens, etc.
   * See `secrets/readme.md` to learn more about how to use this folder.

### Finish stack setup

1. Commit and push stack changes

   ```bash
   cd /path/to/project
   git add .
   git commit -m "Feature: Update base stack for <ProjectName> project"
   git push origin main
   ```

2. Spin up the stack

   ```bash
   cd /path/to/project
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

### FAQ

**How can I connect to a database management software like PGAdmin?**

* In `docker-compose.yml`, uncomment services.db.ports and the definition of ports on the next line.
* Adjust the port to desired port map
* Run `docker-compose up -d` to update the stack.

### Questions? Requests?

If you have any questions or notice something that doesn't look right, open an issue or submit a pull request.

### Cred

Much inspiration for all of this was taken from [Kevin Collins](https://github.com/thirdgen88) as well as [Design Group](https://github.com/design-group). There is nothing here they haven't already done, I just put it in one place.

Commit message:

Chore: Update readme with gwbk update instructions

readme.md, after:

# Project Template

## Purpose

This project template is designed as a base repository for any project, and can be adapted for any purpose.

## Getting started

If you are new to version control or just haven't used it in awhile, the following documents may be useful to get you started.

* [Git Style Guide](https://github.com/ia-eknorr/ignition-git-style-guide)
* [IA Version Control Documentation](https://github.com/ia-eknorr/ignition-version-control)

It is assumed that the following have been installed and set up before spinning up this stack:

* [Proper workstation setup](https://github.com/ia-eknorr/ignition-version-control/blob/main/Workstation%20Setup.md)
  * Git
  * Github CLI
  * Visual Studio Code
* Docker
* [Traefik reverse proxy](https://github.com/ia-eknorr/traefik-reverse-proxy)

## How To Use

### Create local repository

* Create folder for repository
* Run `git clone <repository-link>`

### Update the stack

> :memo: **_Note_**: This will be different for each project. Below are suggested changes, but not everything may be applicable.

1. `.env`
   Update, add, or delete these variables as needed. The ones currently in this file are added as examples.

2. `db-init`
   Place .sql files containing database instantiation in the following folders. These sql scripts will be be run alphanumerically on startup.

3. `gw-projects`
   * For a new project
      * Update `ExampleProject/project.json` with `title: "<NewProjectName>"`
      * Rename `ExampleProject` directory with `<NewProjectName>`
   * For an existing project
      * Delete `gw-projects/ExampleProject` and replace it with the existing _unzipped_ project export.

4. `readme.md`
   > :memo: **_Note_**: Your project should have a readme that contains information about the project, helpful links, and anything else you think would be useful. `sample-readme.md` has been added as an example.

   * Update `sample-readme.md` with pertinent information for the project.
   * Delete (or rename) this document, `readme.md`.
   * Rename `sample-readme.md` to `readme.md`.

5. `docs` (Optional)
   * Place any useful or pertinent documentation to your project here, such as an `installation-guide.md`

6. `module-init` (Optional)

   * Used for any necessary 3rd party modules.
   * See `module-init/readme.md` to learn more about how to use this folder.

7. `secrets` (Optional)
   * Used for sensitive information like passwords, tokens, etc.
   * See `secrets/readme.md` to learn more about how to use this folder.

### Finish stack setup

1. Commit and push stack changes

   ```bash
   cd /path/to/project
   git add .
   git commit -m "Feature: Update base stack for <ProjectName> project"
   git push origin main
   ```

2. Spin up the stack

   ```bash
   cd /path/to/project
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

## Updating this Development Environment

The configuration baked into each of the `gw-init/*.gwbk` gateway files is setup to connect to other development resources in this environment.  When updating elements of the base configuration, it is important that the projects are not part of the captured GWBK's.  Below is a sequence of steps to update the environment's GWBK's:

1. Bring the solution online and make the needed configuration changes.
2. Run the following script to take a gateway backup of the container and strip the gateway projects

   ```bash
   bash scripts/download-gateway-backups.sh
   ```

3. Commit the new backup to source control.

### FAQ

**How can I connect to a database management software like PGAdmin?**

* In `docker-compose.yml`, uncomment services.db.ports and the definition of ports on the next line.
* Adjust the port to desired port map
* Run `docker-compose up -d` to update the stack.

### Questions? Requests?

If you have any questions or notice something that doesn't look right, open an issue or submit a pull request.

### Cred

Much inspiration for all of this was taken from [Kevin Collins](https://github.com/thirdgen88) as well as [Design Group](https://github.com/design-group). There is nothing here they haven't already done, I just put it in one place.
